README.rst, before:

ITKBridgeNumPy
==============

.. image:: https://circleci.com/gh/InsightSoftwareConsortium/ITKBridgeNumPy.svg?style=svg
    :target: https://circleci.com/gh/InsightSoftwareConsortium/ITKBridgeNumPy

This is a port from the original WrapITK PyBuffer to an ITKv4 module.

Differences from the original PyBuffer:

- Support for VectorImage's
- Option to not swap the axes (only for GetArrayFromImage)
- Tests
- Based on the `Python Buffer Protocol <https://docs.python.org/3/c-api/buffer.html>`_ -- does not require NumPy to build.

This module is available in the ITK source tree as a Remote
module.  To enable it, set::

  ITK_WRAP_PYTHON:BOOL=ON
  Module_BridgeNumPy:BOOL=ON

in ITK's CMake build configuration. In ITK 4.12 and later, this module is
enabled by default when `ITK_WRAP_PYTHON` is enabled.

To convert an ITK image to a NumPy array::

  import itk

  PixelType = itk.ctype('float')
  Dimension = 3
  ImageType = itk.Image[PixelType, Dimension]

  image = ImageType.New()
  size = itk.Size[Dimension]()
  size.Fill(100)
  region = itk.ImageRegion[Dimension](size)
  image.SetRegions(region)
  image.Allocate()

  arr = itk.PyBuffer[ImageType].GetArrayFromImage(image)

To convert a NumPy array to an ITK image::

  import numpy as np
  import itk

  PixelType = itk.ctype('float')
  Dimension = 3
  ImageType = itk.Image[PixelType, Dimension]

  arr = np.zeros((100, 100, 100), np.float32)
  image = itk.PyBuffer[ImageType].GetImageFromArray(arr)

It is also possible to convert VNL matrices and arrays to NumPy arrays and
back::

  import numpy as np
  import itk

  ElementType = itk.ctype('float')
  vector = itk.vnl_vector[ElementType]()
  vector.set_size(8)
  arr = itk.PyVnl[ElementType].GetArrayFromVnlVector(vector)

  matrix = itk.vnl_matrix[ElementType]()
  matrix.set_size(3, 4)
  arr = itk.PyVnl[ElementType].GetArrayFromVnlMatrix(matrix)

  arr = np.zeros((100,), np.float32)
  vector = itk.PyVnl[ElementType].GetVnlVectorFromArray(arr)

  arr = np.zeros((100, 100), np.float32)
  matrix = itk.PyVnl[ElementType].GetVnlMatrixFromArray(arr)

.. warning::

  The conversions create `NumPy Views
  <https://scipy-cookbook.readthedocs.io/items/ViewsVsCopies.html>`_, i.e. it
  presents the ITK image pixel buffer in the NumPy array, and the buffer is
  shared. This means that no copies are made (which increases speed and
  reduces memory consumption). It also means that any changes in the NumPy
  array change the ITK image content. Additionally, a reference to an ITK
  image object must be available to use its NumPy array view. Using an array
  view after its source image has been deleted can results in corrupt values
  or a segfault.

Commit message:

ENH: Explicit states that 'Get' functions return views
Function names to convert NumPy arrays to ITK or VNL objects were not explicitly
stating that they were returning views on the source object and therefore that:
- The memory was shared among objects.
- The source object was still managing the memory

Functions have been renamed to include the word 'View' to avoid confusion.

README.rst, after:

ITKBridgeNumPy
==============

.. image:: https://circleci.com/gh/InsightSoftwareConsortium/ITKBridgeNumPy.svg?style=svg
    :target: https://circleci.com/gh/InsightSoftwareConsortium/ITKBridgeNumPy

This is a port from the original WrapITK PyBuffer to an ITKv4 module.

Differences from the original PyBuffer:

- Support for VectorImage's
- Option to not swap the axes (only for GetArrayViewFromImage)
- Tests
- Based on the `Python Buffer Protocol <https://docs.python.org/3/c-api/buffer.html>`_ -- does not require NumPy to build.

This module is available in the ITK source tree as a Remote
module.  To enable it, set::

  ITK_WRAP_PYTHON:BOOL=ON
  Module_BridgeNumPy:BOOL=ON

in ITK's CMake build configuration. In ITK 4.12 and later, this module is
enabled by default when `ITK_WRAP_PYTHON` is enabled.

To get a view of an ITK image in a NumPy array::

  import itk

  PixelType = itk.ctype('float')
  Dimension = 3
  ImageType = itk.Image[PixelType, Dimension]

  image = ImageType.New()
  size = itk.Size[Dimension]()
  size.Fill(100)
  region = itk.ImageRegion[Dimension](size)
  image.SetRegions(region)
  image.Allocate()

  arr = itk.PyBuffer[ImageType].GetArrayViewFromImage(image)

To get a view of a NumPy array in an ITK image::

  import numpy as np
  import itk

  PixelType = itk.ctype('float')
  Dimension = 3
  ImageType = itk.Image[PixelType, Dimension]

  arr = np.zeros((100, 100, 100), np.float32)
  image = itk.PyBuffer[ImageType].GetImageViewFromArray(arr)

It is also possible to get views of VNL matrices and arrays from NumPy arrays and
back::

  import numpy as np
  import itk

  ElementType = itk.ctype('float')
  vector = itk.vnl_vector[ElementType]()
  vector.set_size(8)
  arr = itk.PyVnl[ElementType].GetArrayViewFromVnlVector(vector)

  matrix = itk.vnl_matrix[ElementType]()
  matrix.set_size(3, 4)
  arr = itk.PyVnl[ElementType].GetArrayViewFromVnlMatrix(matrix)

  arr = np.zeros((100,), np.float32)
  vector = itk.PyVnl[ElementType].GetVnlVectorViewFromArray(arr)

  arr = np.zeros((100, 100), np.float32)
  matrix = itk.PyVnl[ElementType].GetVnlMatrixViewFromArray(arr)

.. warning::

  The conversions create `NumPy Views
  <https://scipy-cookbook.readthedocs.io/items/ViewsVsCopies.html>`_, i.e. it
  presents the ITK image pixel buffer in the NumPy array, and the buffer is
  shared. This means that no copies are made (which increases speed and
  reduces memory consumption). It also means that any changes in the NumPy
  array change the ITK image content. Additionally, a reference to an ITK
  image object must be available to use its NumPy array view. Using an array
  view after its source image has been deleted can results in corrupt values
  or a segfault.
  Modifying the content of a NumPy view of an ITK or VNL object will result
  in implicitly copy the data from the original ITK or VNL object before
  modification. The modification will only be visible in the now copy
  and not in original object. The memory is not shared anymore between
  ITK or VNL and NumPy. However, modifying the content of an ITK or VNL view
  of a NumPy object will result in modifying the original NumPy object. No
  copy is created and the memory is still shared after modification.

It is possible to modify the content of an ITK or VNL object from a NumPy
view using 'setfield'::

  arr_image=itk.GetArrayFromImage(image)
  cp_arr = arr_image.copy()
  # Modify copy of array
  # hack, hack, hack
  # Copy modified array into image
  arr_image.setfield(cp_arr,arr_image.dtype)
